# panel-data-regression-R
Poverty Gap Index-P1 is a tool to measure how far the average per capita expenditure of the poor is relative to the poverty line. By knowing the depth of poverty, the local government will be assisted in making budget allocation policies more efficiently because the depth of poverty affects how much government effort is needed to lift someone out of poverty. In this project, it is examined what factors affect the District/City Poverty Depth Index in Central Java Province in 2017-2020 using panel data analysis. This analysis produces a mathematical model of panel data that can be used to predict the Poverty Depth Index of a Regency/City in Central Java in a certain period. Based on the mathematical model of the panel data, it is known that the factors that significantly affect the Regency/City Poverty Index in Central Java in 2017-2020 are the Open Unemployment Rate (TPT), Per Capita Expenditure (PPK), and Regency/City Minimum Wage (UMK). To reduce the Poverty Depth Index, the government should try to reduce the TPT and increase the KDP and UMK.

The problem formulation of this project is as follows: 
a. What are the factors that significantly affect the Poverty Gap Index-P1 Districts/Cities in Central Java Province in 2017-2020? 
b. What is the mathematical model that can estimate the Poverty Gap Index-P1 District/City in Central Java Province based on the factors that significantly influence it?

Viewed from the purpose of data analysis, panel data is useful for seeing the economic impact that is inseparable between each individual in several periods, and this cannot be obtained from using cross-section data or time-series data separately. The existence of differences in the characteristics of the dependent variable from each entity or the influence of other variables outside the model that you want to observe the effect of using panel data regression will be effective because linear regression cannot do it.

